---
layout:      post
title:       "New Website?"
date:        2016-04-04 15:00:00
category:    Personal
description: I've been neglecting my blog for over a year now. When I published my latest post a few days ago, I noticed that the site was a bit outdated (code, web framework, layouts, etc.).
---
I've been neglecting my blog for over a year now. When I published my latest post a few days ago, I noticed that the site was a bit outdated (code, web framework, layouts, etc.).

To be honest, patching it up at this stage would be a waste of time. It needs to be rebuilt from the ground up. I've been doing some catching up with what the cool kids (a.k.a. front end developers) are using these days. Between being shocked, excited, horrified, confused and petrified with how some things actually work (I'm looking at you, npm. And you too, Bower. Don't think I've forgotten about you both, Gulp and Grunt), I've found some pretty interesting stuff around Web Components, Polymer, Promises, Service Worker, etc.

Most of this stuff will definitely be overkill for the blog, but one of its initial purposes was to serve as a sort of learning ground to play with new web technologies and I've never used it in that way. Until now.

I'll also merge both my sites into a single one. My personal information page available at [mulberrybeacon.com][personal-page] will become an "About Me" page on this site, although it'll still be reachable through its current address. I'll probably have to move it out of GitHub into some sort of cloud storage (maybe an AWS instance).

At the same time, I'm going to be much more active than I've been so far by posting stuff mainly about tech and movies. I might even write about the changes I'll be making to the site. And publish some short stories about you-know-who.

To sum it up, the blog will become borderline unusable over the next few months while I rebuild it. Anyway, with a grand total of -1 readers, I'm sure no one will mind if things become a bit quirky around here.

[personal-page]: http://mulberrybeacon.com

